
  
A data type is a classification that specifies the type of data that a variable can hold. It determines the possible values that the variable can take, the operations that can be performed on the variable, and the way in which the variable is stored in memory.


In Java, there are two categories of data types: primitive data types and reference data types.

Primitive data types are the basic data types that are built into the Java language. They are used to represent simple values like numbers and characters. There are eight primitive data types in Java:

1. byte - 8-bit signed integer
2. short - 16-bit signed integer
3. int - 32-bit signed integer
4. long - 64-bit signed integer
5. float - 32-bit floating-point number
6. double - 64-bit floating-point number
7. char - 16-bit Unicode character
8. boolean - true or false value

Reference data types are used to refer to objects in Java. They include classes, interfaces, arrays, and enumerated types. When you declare a reference variable, you are creating a reference to an object. The actual object is created using the new keyword. Some examples of reference data types in Java include:
- `Import is needed we need to import these to use`

1. String - a sequence of characters
2. Array - a collection of values of the same type
3. ArrayList - a dynamically resizable array
4. LinkedList - a list data structure
5. HashMap - a key-value mapping data structure
6. Class - a template for creating objects
7. Interface - a collection of abstract methods and constants.

